---
title: 2019 into 2020
description: A look backwards and forwards.
date: 2019-12-10
tags: yearly
permalink: "/from-2019-to-2020/"
---
The year is nearly over–as well as the past decade. 

Often times I take these last few weeks to take stock of what all has happened in the past year, this year I've decided to take that process a bit more public.

## Travel
This was a great year for travel. We took a family vacation, spent some time in the Smokies, and even had a weekend trip or two.

- **The Whirlwind Week-long Vacation:** This one was wild. First, a five-day cruise that took us through the north-east. We hiked from port to the top of Cadillac mountain and back (25,000 steps), explored the oldest continuously operated farmer's market in all of canada, and toured the city where the Titanic's recovery mission was commissioned. Then we landed at port in Newark, NJ and hopped over the river into the city-that-never-sleeps for two of the busiest and most exciting days of the entire year. The entire trip culminated in a week of exploring cultures, walking a lot, and eating *a ton* of great food with some of my favorite people in the world.
- **Camping in August:** While August was one of the warmer months on record, we spend a relaxing and low-key weekend just off of Lake Barkley. We earned bonus points by being the only family in the campground who slept in a tent for the weekend.
- **The Smokies at winter:** Currently we're capping the winter off in Pigeon Forge, TN in a cozy cabin with my parents, siblings, and grandparents for the holidays.

## New website
I let my site die. It was a weird, busy year and my hosting actually expired before I had a chance to push some changes towards the middle of the year.

It seemed like a great opportunity to re-build the site from scratch and change a lot of what was not working for me.

The new iteration is built using Eleventy, my lightweight Vanilla CSS framework, and many long nights. I've detailed some of the finer details in the about section of the site here.

## My first home and a dog
Taylor and I bought our first house together. It's a small little two bedroom with a good backyard to host a BBQ or two. 

We did get a dog as well, Riley. He is an extremely soft, cuddly, and anxious American Eskimo-Golden Retriever mix, *we think*. The anxiety comes from just having a hard time socializing with new people, but every day has seemed like an improvement.

## I learned some stuff
I wanted to do a few things this year:

- ~~Keep learning React~~
- ~~Take a course on Art-Direction for the web~~
- Continue exploring what's possible in Front End Development
- Explore more with team work and culture

I only *barely accomplished* two of the four goals. It's hard meet goals that you set for yourself, if there is one thing I desperately want to improve this coming year it would be that.

I did learn a few things that weren't expected:

- How to Set Up and Use a Raspberry Pi
- A pretty decent proficiency of using the Command Line
- The basics of how to use Git and Github
- The fundamentals of cooking - not tech related but a game changer

## I'd still like to learn more
Here are a few projects and concepts I'd like to work on and what I want to get out of them

- **Create a design system** - standards, typography and building effective patterns with a purpose
- **Convert said design system to a framework** - sass, components, and DRY coding
- **Build a basic app using React** - states, components, modules, props
- **Basic Computer Science** - DNS, simple algorithms, data structures, all the other networking jargon
- **Actually Understand Flexbox and Grid** - columns, centering, displays, and when to use either
- **What is a socket and why do websites work** - sockets, computing, and requests/responses
- **Dev Ops and Deployment** - environments, using SSG, travis, processes
- **CSS Psuedos, Selectors, and Chaining** - :root, :before and :after, specificity

Taylor and I are also putting some things in the works for a small but completely functional screen printing setup at the home shop. I'll update once we start pushing ink through screens.

## Let's do some reading together
I'll keep track of the books I add to and take off of my shelf this year! I'm also always looking for new stories and ideas to take in so give me a shout on Twitter if you have any recommendations.

Check out the list here.

## Here's to a great year
I'll start updating this site, and Twitter much more frequently in 2020 and I hope you'll follow along.